# Meeting notes

Zurich, Swico, October 8. 2019

## Participants

- Nicolas Guillet and Remo Knaus, Abacus
- Gianni Micic, Billte
- Pierre Arnaud, Epsitec
- Roland Messerli, Messerli Informatik
- Eva Sediki, Nintu Informatik
- Fabio Serratore, SIX

## Reference material

- [Swiss QR Invoice](https://www.swiss-qr-invoice.org)
- [Spec. for using eBill Alternative Procedure in the Swiss QR Code](https://www.ebill.ch/dam/downloads/specifications/d0482-en-01-specifications-for-using-the-ebill-alternative-procedure-in.pdf) - ebill.ch.
- [NWP Technical Documentation](https://www.ebill.ch/dam/downloads/network-partners/nwp-api-specs-en.zip) - ebill.ch.
- [Elektronische Hybridrechnung PDF mit XML](https://shop.gs1.ch/img/A~16970/20/Elektronische%20Hybrid.pdf?xet=1517299208724) - Basierend auf ZUGFeRD/Factur-X, GS1.

## Preliminary discussions

### About ZUGFeRD

> ZUGFeRD 2 bzw. EN16931 haben leider auch ein paar Nachteile, vor allem lässt sich das normale Fälligkeitsdatum nicht abbilden, Skonto auch nicht. Und auf Positionsebene kann der Betrag nicht inkl. MWST abgebildet werden, was sehr schade ist. Sonstige CH-Eigenheiten wie ESR und QR lassen sich aber abbilden, und das ist dank GS1 auch standardisiert.
>
> Zu überlegen wäre, ob sich die Schweizer ERP-Hersteller einigen könnten, den /40/-Teil vom Swico-String der QR-Rechnung in ein Textfeld von ZUGFeRD abzufüllen, natürlich mit einem sinnvollen Prefix, damit alle Regeln eingehalten werden. Falls wir das machen wollen wäre GS1 natürlich prädestiniert, das zu managen.

## To be discussed

### API Deep Dive

See below.

### API Definiton with respect to SIX specification

We should stay as near as possible to the SIX specification in order to limit the documentation work required in the future.

### Should the API support all business cases?

The _Alternative Procedure Parameters_ defined by SIX only define a mapping from a QR-bill to `B` (`Bill`) or `R` (`Reminder`). What about the `InstalmentBill`, `CreditNote` and `Advice` business cases?

&rarr; Yes, but not for all PDF formats.

### What type of attachments should the API support for PDF/A-3 uploads?

1. No attachment; information is extracted from the QR-code of the QR-bill.
   > Multipage documents?  
   > Multiple QR-codes?  
   > Bad quality of QR-code image
2. XML-eBill attachment.
   > Not every information in QR-bill can be mapped to XML-eBill (element `/40/`).
3. XML-ZUGFeRD attachment (GS1).
4. TXT-QR attachment.
5. In the future, also proprietary Paynet or PostFinance XML attachments...

&rarr; for now, we settle for **QR-code** "raw" without any additional metadata, and **XML-eBill** attachment.

## PDF

- The NWP is (currently) responsible for the signing of the PDF provided by the SWP. In the future, it would be of interest that the SIX infrastructure signs the PDF (the NWP does not want to be considered as accountable for a malicious PDF delivered by the SWP).
- A single PDF/A-3 with attachments is the only acceptable input media, independent of the format of the metadata.
- The PDF provided by the SWP to the NWP is not the same as the PDF delivered to the customer, because of the potentially synthesized XML-eBill attachment and the NWP signature. The SWP has to archive the PDF, as sent to the eBill network, and therefore **needs to be able to retrieve the PDF from the SWP**.  
  For this, use `/billers/{billerId}/business-cases/{businessCaseId}` with media type `application/pdf`.

## Suggested API changes

We include the `billerId` as a parameter for all `billers` routes.

`billers/{billerId}/bill-recipients/search`

`billers/{billerId}/bill-recipients/bulk-search`

`billers/{billerId}/business-cases`

&rarr; additional endpoints based on the type of metadata stored in the PDF?  
 _No, an optional parameter should be used to specify the provided metadata format_ (`ebill`, `qrbill`).

&rarr; since the API must respond immediately with a business case ID, the NWP does not return the _real_ business case of the eBill infrastructure. This allows for buffering in case of system overload.

&rarr; a reply with status `NWP_PENDING` is returned if the business was not yet delivered to the eBill infrastructure, otherwise the _real_ status code from SIX will be provided.

```json
{
  "id": "NWPBCID0FB909852BBC4D06AD8336AAE87D7FC9",
  "status": "NWP_PENDING"
}
```

`billers/{billerId}/business-cases/{businessCaseId}`

&rarr; same return value as for the `POST`.

`events/business-case-status-changed`

&rarr; return events for all biller IDs registered with a SWP.

`events/bill-recipient-email-address-changed`

&rarr; is currently missing from the API definition; this would be useful to the SWP.

> Note: when a user changes her email address, the infrastructure reroutes to the proper user during 15 months.

`events/bill-recipient-subscription-status-changed`  
`events/instalment-status-changed`

&rarr; return events for all biller IDs registered with a SWP. The `instalment-status-changed` is currently missing from the API definition; this is as useful (or as useless) as the `bill-recipient-subscription-status-changed` event.

&rarr; this requires more thought.

`healthcheck`

&rarr; no brainer...

## Registering a bill recipient

`events/bill-recipient-subscription-status-changed`

&rarr; use this single event endpoint to retrieve all subscriptions, those from the infrastructure, and those which go through the registration form.

&rarr; the `BillRecipientSubscriptionStatusChangedEvent` structure has to be extended in order to include additional key/value pairs, as provided by the user in the registration form.

## Onboarding, biller information, attachments

The onboarding process is the responsibility of every NWP.  
This topic and other aspects are not covered by this API.

## Authentication

The SWP stores following information in its software:

- URL of OAuth2 server.
- URL of NWP.
- Biller ID.
- Initial refresh token &rarr; access token, new refresh token.

## Follow-up

- Authentication needs more thought.
- A clear view of Level-1 (_Stufe 1_) has been defined.  
  We need to discuss Level-2 and Level-3, mainly to include the B2B segment.
- Error management needs to be clarified.  
  Ingestion of the PDF/A-3 can generate logical errors.

## Final note

- Never ever include any customer or sensitive data on GitHub.
- Next meeting scheduled October 16, 13:30.
