
# Meeting notes

Zurich, Schweizerhof, October 29. 2019

## Participants

- Nicolas Guillet , Abacus
- Remo Knaus, Abacus
- Gianni Micic, Billte
- Eva Sediki, Nintu Informatik
- Beat Meier, Nintu Informatik
- Gino Campolo, Avaloq
- Stefan Staehl, Medidata
- Fabio Serratore, SIX
- Simon Zbinden, GS1

## Reference material

- [Swiss QR Invoice](https://www.swiss-qr-invoice.org)
- [Spec. for using eBill Alternative Procedure in the Swiss QR Code](https://www.ebill.ch/dam/downloads/specifications/d0482-en-01-specifications-for-using-the-ebill-alternative-procedure-in.pdf) - ebill.ch.
- [NWP Technical Documentation](https://www.ebill.ch/dam/downloads/network-partners/nwp-api-specs-en.zip) - ebill.ch.
- [Elektronische Hybridrechnung PDF mit XML](https://shop.gs1.ch/img/A~16970/20/Elektronische%20Hybrid.pdf?xet=1517299208724) - Basierend auf ZUGFeRD/Factur-X, GS1.

## Agenda
- BillerID: PID 41xx
- Authentication via AuthToken
- License model for this OpenAPI
- B2C formats: Should the EIXML be included in the standard? License from Nintu? 
- B2B extension of standard API: receive B2B invoices
- Interconnect

## BillerID in SWP-API: PID 41xx, 17 digits
Proposal: Instead of SIX Infrastructure's BIID, the PID should be used in the SWP-API: 41xx, 17 digits. All participants today already have such a PID.
Currently, Nicolas is holds the list. &rarr; Pubish the list in the GitHub.

## Authentication via AuthToken
SWP authentication at NWP, or NWPs among each other: OAuth with JWT?And OAuth2 refresh token?

OAuth2 with Refresh Token:
- Configuration at SWP: BillerID, 2 API-URLs, (one time) authentication code.
- The IdP delivers  a new refresh token with the auth token comes from time to time; validity period of the auth token can be configured in the IdP.
- How can the purpose be specified? &rarr; to be clarified.
- If AuthToken is not signed, IdP must always be contacted to verify validity.
- The hurdle to implement OAuth is quite big for small SWPs.
- The *sub* may contain e.g. the biller PID.

&rarr;  Eva will provide an overview of possible usages of OAuth.


## License model - Proposal for objectives, tasks and duties of SWP-API
### Goal 
- Promotion of a nationwide network for electronic invoices based on service providers for billers and bill recipients (Open API).
- Compatibility between software packages for invoicing and service providers for invoice routing.
- Compatibility between software packages for incoming invoice processing and service providers for invoice routing.
- No distinction between B2C and B2B.

### The license should specifies
- Management of source code and documentation 
&rarr; Who is the **owner**?
- Publisher of changes/updates? &rarr; Who has the **right to change**?
- Conditions for **contributions**
- **Disclaimer**
- **Warranty** resp. exclusion of warranty
- **Copyright** &rarr; Yes, under this license
- Private modifications &rarr; No, modifications have to be introduced via contributions.
- Administrator of **network IDs** of billers, bill recipients, service providers.

### Commitments of usufruct
- Obligation to implement updates within a certain period of time
- Commitment to repond to a Look-Up request
- Support of the network concept:  Obligation to route invoices to connected invoice recipients (costs?)

See [https://choosealicense.com/licenses/](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/)

- Proposals for owner: 
-- GS1/SwissDigin
-- New Foundation / association
-- SWICO
-- OpenPEPPOL
- Further suggestion: Publish level 1 (B2C) of the SWP-API only with reference to future institutionalization &rarr; faster ready for implementation. BUT: License is open; owner will be determined afterwards.

## B2C und B2B formats
  - Proposal: Remove eBill format from the SWP-API because no SWP has implemented it yet and because it cannot be use for B2B. &rarr; Instead ZUGFeRD Basic-WL can be used, if ZUGFeRD Basic-WL can be converted to eBill.
 - **QR-PDF** (eBill)
 - Existing: **YB**, **EIXML** (only if SWP-API is licenced, see above) ; soon there will be changes there, like QR-IBAN, e-mail address etc..
Only with PDF/A-3 Hybrid
 - Currently rejected proposal: Swiss print format from Viscom
-- XML with 40-60 fields, simple invoice with QR code. 
-- This could be a PDF file with XML file attachment ( ~ Proposal Mr. Messerli) [https://www.viscom.ch/?v=vi&name=news](https://www.viscom.ch/?v=vi&name=news)
-- The question rather concerns the process: Where to pick up the data or PDF invoice in order to make a decision between printing or eBill? 
If the data is retrieved after rendering, then it's simply a QR-PDF and not a new format. 
If the biller delivers all the data, the decision between printing or eBill is done in the NWP where the Viscom XML is created for printing if no eBill is possible.
 - **ZUGFeRD EN16931**, **EXTENDED**, **Basic-WL** (&rarr; Remo clarifies if it contains all to create an eBill?)
 - Main recommendation: **ZUGFeRD EN16931**

 ## Comments from Pierre Arnaud
- SIX should extend the ebill.xml so that it can hold all data provided by the QR invoice  
_Sollen wir hier einen Vorschlag machen, oder lieber die Aufgabe der SIX berlassen?_

- Authentication    A standardized structure would be helpful  
_Was ist hier gemeint?_ _JWT ist ein Standard.  
Oder meint Ihr, die Richtlinien sollen vorgeben, dass in "sub" z.B. immer der Biller ID stehen soll?  
Ich bleibe der Meinung, dass jeder NWP die Frage Identitt selber abwickeln soll  wir haben z.B. schon ein JWT, dass von der Software ber einen Crsus-eigenen OAuth2-Server bekommt. Vorzuschreiben, dass alle ber einen von SIX gehosteten Server gehen mssen, ist problematisch: SIX msste das Onboarding der Endkunden gewhrleisten knnen_

- Configuration at biller/SWP  
_Das macht viele Informationen, die der User eintippen oder ber Copy-Paste einfgen muss.  
Sollen wir da ein JSON-Format spezifizieren, das in einem Schlag von der SWP-Software eingelesen werden kann?
&rarr; Knnte als Antwort auf automatisches Onboarding dienen._

- Interconnect between NWPs  
_Ganz schn  da muss jedoch jemand ein zentrales Repository pflegen, damit das Routing der Rechnungen von einem NWP zum anderen gehen kann, auf Basis eines Payer IDs? Kme da also die SIX wieder in eine zentrale Rolle? Wenn ja, wre das sicher mit Routing-Kosten verbunden sein. Wenn nein, muss jemand diese Rolle aufnehmen und da mchte ich mich nicht mit den Fragen Datenschutz auseinander setzen mssen_ J

## One Format for B2C and B2Bs: ZUGFeRD (GS1)
Last meeting we said:
>  - ZUGFeRD 2.0.1 (with swissness by GS1) corresponds to a subset of the Cross Industry Invoice (~200 fields) and is an EU standard (EN16931)
> - **One** format for B2C and B2B: so, no need for biller/SWP to distinguish between B2C and B2B invoices.
> - Not a big effort to implement on SWP; the largest effort for SWP is the implementation of the API, not in the preparation of the invoice format.
> - Question: Is the format ZUGFeRD 2.0.1 with the EN16031 profile enough or are further ZUGFeRD  profiles needed? For example, if no line items are available?

- ZUGFeRD: Profiles *Basic* and *Minimum* can be ignored; only *Basic-WL* (without line items) for DE und FR, ***EN16931*** (Payment term, PID?, no installments!) and *EXTENDED* (discount, installments?) are relevant.
- EU standard: only XML;  ZUGFeRD "only" approved. For invoices to the public sector.
- *Extended* is the extension of *EN16931*; *Basic-WL* is less.
- Is whole addressing (e.g. BillerID) mapped in ZUGFeRD?

## API call to receive B2B invoices
Two endpoints are needed for a B2B customer to receive invoices:
1. Get list of available new invoices
 `customers/{customerId}/business-cases`
Similar to how the events are fetched.  
2. Get content of one new invoice
 `customers/{customerId}/business-cases/${businessCaseId}`

## Interconnect 
Based on SWP-API / NWP-API: 
- RS makes RE lookup at the NWP via e-mail, PID (41xx) or UID.
- With PID you know which NWP has the RE.
- RS NWP routes the invoice to RE NWP (via SWP-API)
- RE NWP sends invoice to RE (B2B)
- Disadvantages:
-- No supply chain messages 
-- Specific to Switzerland
-- Exact definition still needed
- Advantages
-- Simple

With OpenPEPPOL:
- Directory to find RS, incl. formats, URL of RS; Owner is an EU office
- RS talks to access point (= NWP)
- Access point &rarr; Access point &rarr; RE
- Advantage: 
-- Supply Chain Messages
-- Standard EN16931
-- Already defined
- Disadvantage: 
-- UBL

## Next steps 
- Define stage 1 (B2C) and send it first to the small round (this  working group) and aftwewards, to all NWPs for the "consultation process".
- Discussion on API / biller id in event endpoints? What else? &rarr; Nicolas, Eva will clear this up.
- Onboarding process in general. How to validate sensitive data, e.g. account number?
- SWP config items: within a Json structure?

## Open questions / answers
- SIX does not plan to implement a bulk search.

## Final note
- Next meeting scheduled: no date fixed!
- Agenda: see Next steps above