# Meeting notes

Zurich, Swico, October 16. 2019

## Participants

- Nicolas Guillet , Abacus
- Gianni Micic, Billte
- Eva Sediki, Nintu Informatik
- Jean-Claude Gaechter, InvoCloud
- Gino Campolo, Avaloq
- Stefan Staehl, Medidata
- Fabio Serratore, SIX
- Andrey Moiseenko, SIX

## Reference material

- [Swiss QR Invoice](https://www.swiss-qr-invoice.org)
- [Spec. for using eBill Alternative Procedure in the Swiss QR Code](https://www.ebill.ch/dam/downloads/specifications/d0482-en-01-specifications-for-using-the-ebill-alternative-procedure-in.pdf) - ebill.ch.
- [NWP Technical Documentation](https://www.ebill.ch/dam/downloads/network-partners/nwp-api-specs-en.zip) - ebill.ch.
- [Elektronische Hybridrechnung PDF mit XML](https://shop.gs1.ch/img/A~16970/20/Elektronische%20Hybrid.pdf?xet=1517299208724) - Basierend auf ZUGFeRD/Factur-X, GS1.

## Agenda
- Walk through the current SWP-API
-- Onboarding
-- Lookup for bill recipient: search and bulk-search
- Authentication: OAuthToken versus  username/password
- Configuration at biller/SWP
- Error management of API calls
- Notification to bill recipient
- Invoice formats for Level-2 (existing formats) and Level-3 (B2B formats)
- API call to receive B2B invoices
- Interconnect between NWPs
 
 ## Onboarding
Last meeting we said:
> The onboarding process is the responsibility of every NWP.   This
> topic and other aspects are not covered by this API.

For mass onboarding, a standardized API could help NWP and biller/SWP.
Should onboarding be included into the SWP-API?
 - Pros: standardized interface to provide biller relevant data to NWP like name, address, contact data, ESR y/n, account info.
 - Cons: account info is too delicate to be transfer via the API
 - Cons: every NWP has a different onboarding strategy; some NWPs have already implemented an onboarding procedure.
 
 
 &rarr; For the moment, no API calls will be added for the onboarding.
&rarr; *Should this ever change, it has to be made very sure that a biller cannot change his iban with the same api. This would be a big security risk.*

## Lookup for bill recipient

Two API calls exists with nearly the same interface: search and bulk-search. Wouldn't bulk-search cover both use cases?

- search: if bill-recipient does not allow eBill, the call returns http error 400. So, for bulk-search another method is needed to return which bill-recipients allow eBill and which don't, e.g. returning a status for each requested bill-recipient:
```json
[  
{  
  "emailAddress":  "peter@muster.ch",  
  "billRecipientId":  "41010560425610173",  
  "enterpriseIdentificationNumber":  "CHE123456789",
  "status": "allow"
}
]
```
- Proposal: SIX implements bulk-search first in NWP-API and only afterwards, SWP-API offers the same call.
&rarr; The NWPs hereby officially request SIX to extend the NWP-API by the bulk-search call.

&rarr; Furthermore, SIX should extend the ebill.xml so that it can hold all data provided by the QR invoice. 


## Authentication
Which authentication method should be used: OAuth2 or username/password?
 - Username/password would be easier for the biller.
 - OAuth
-- Is used when password should not be exposed to NWP; but if NWP runs the OAuth server, the password is exposed to him.
-- Content of OAuth-Token, e.g. the SIX JWT-Token consists of three parts: 
--- Header:
 `{"alg":"HS256","typ":"JWT"}`
--- Payload: 
`{"iss":"api.six-group.com","exp":1300819380,"name":"Networkpartner 9001","sub":"NWID0090000001"}` 
--- Signature: 
`HMACSHA256(base64UrlEncode(header) + "." + base64UrlEncode(payload),<your-256-bitsecret>)` 
Each of the three parts is itself a json-content that will be Base64-encoded.
-- NWP needs to look into the payload of the OAuth token to find out who is accessing the API. So, the NWP must know the structure of the token payload. 
&rarr; A standardized structure would be helpfull.
&rarr; It would make sense, that one single OAuth-Server with a standardized payload structure exists for all NWPs. Proposal: SIX could run such a OAuth-Server.

## Configuration at biller/SWP
The following configuration entries are needed in the biller's SW to use the SWP-API:
1. OAuth-URL
E.g. https://api.mynwp.ch/auth/ebill/oauth/token or https://api.six-group.com/auth/swp/oauth/token
2. API-URL
E.g. https://api.mynwp.ch/api/ebill
Important: the version "/v1" will be added to the path by the SWP.
So, the software itself specifies which version of the API to use and no configuration changes will be needed on SW upgrades.
3. BillerID
Either the original SIX billerId "BIID1234567890" or a NWP specific billerId "NWPBIID1234567890".
4. Client Id
E.g. an UUID.
5. Client Secret
Long string, but not an UUID, because UUIDs can be guessed easily.

If an external public IdP like Google is used, more config items are needed like the Google Subject ID (Google Mail address is not recommended).

Are there restrictions on max lengths?

## Error management of API calls
Postponed to when SWP-API is stable. Should be very similar to error management in NWP-API.

## Notification to bill recipient
At the moment, exists the risk, that the bill recipient is notified about a new invoice several times by 
- biller
- NWP
- SIX infrastructure
- bank

&rarr; Only the biller should use the notification channel to communicate with the customer.

## Existing invoice formats
Should the existing invoice formats YellowBill and EIXML (so called "Paynet format") be included in the standard?

- 80-100 SWPs have already implemented the YellowBill and EIXML formats.
- For processing of EIXML invoices, the NWP needs a license from SAP/Nintu.

## One Format for B2C and B2Bs: ZUGFeRD (GS1)
 - ZUGFeRD 2.0.1 (with swissness by GS1) corresponds to a subset of the Cross Industry Invoice (~200 fields) and is an EU standard (EN16931)
- **One** format for B2C and B2B: so, no need for biller/SWP to distinguish between B2C and B2B invoices.
- Not a big effort to implement on SWP; the largest effort for SWP is the implementation of the API, not in the preparation of the invoice format.
- Question: Is the format ZUGFeRD 2.0.1 with the EN16031 profile enough or are further ZUGFeRD  profiles needed? For example, if no line items are available?

## API call to receive B2B invoices
Two endpoints are needed for a B2B customer to receive invoices:
1. Get list of available new invoices
 `customers/{customerId}/business-cases`
Similar to how the events are fetched.  
2. Get content of one new invoice
 `customers/{customerId}/business-cases/${businessCaseId}`

## Interconnect between NWPs
- Proposal: The implementation of the SWP-API should oblige a NWP to accept B2B invoices from another NWP who implemented the SWP-API.
&rarr; An obligation cannot be enforced, it can be only a recommendation.
- OpenPEPPOL defines the exchange of invoices between networks, but UBL (and not ZUGFeRD) is used; CII would also be on option.

## Final note
- Next meeting scheduled: 29.10.2019 13:30, SWICO, Lagerstrasse 33, Zürich

Agenda:

- Discussion on API / biller id in event endpoints? What else?
- Onboarding process in general. How to validate sensitive data, e.g. account number?
- SWP authentication at NWP, or NWPs among each other / SWP config items
- B2B extension of standard API
- License model for this OpenAPI
- Should the EIXML be included in the standard? License from Nintu? Depends on the B2B question / Maybe all NWPs can use it if only used for SIX eBill.
- eBill-API based NWP interconnect or OpenPEPPOL? Mandatory?
